Health and Fitness
Stretching Guide: Types, Benefits, Stretches for Beginners, and More
If stretching isn’t part of your regular health and fitness routine, you may be missing out. “Stretching is good for everybody and definitely something to do on a regular basis as part of an overall exercise plan,” says Jacque Crockford, a doctor of health science and an American Council on Exercise (ACE)–certified personal trainer based in San Diego. Stretching is a type of exercise that boosts flexibility and mobility by lengthening the muscles, either by extending them or with movement. Here’s what you need to know to get started with stretching. Common Questions & Answers Is 10 minutes of stretching enough? If you’re warming up for a workout, 5 to 10 minutes of dynamic stretching is plenty. If you’re stretching to unwind, you need to do a minimum of 10 minutes for your muscles to fully relax. Stretching methods like proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) and isometric can be more time-consuming because they cycle through periods of contracting and stretching. Should stretching be painful? Is therea wrong way to stretch? Is it okay to stretch every day? What does stretching do to your body? Stretching Habits for Mobility, Energy, and Relaxation The simple pleasure of a good stretch may be the boost you need. What Are the Different Types of Stretching? There are several different types, and each offers a unique benefit. Some common types of stretching include: Passive Stretching Think gym class when you used to bend over and reach down toward your toes. For this type of stretching, an outside force (such as a towel, resistance band, gravity, or another person) helps increase the stretch. Another example is a hamstring stretch with a towel or belt, says Kate Galliett, a National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM)–certified personal trainer and Functional Anatomy Seminars–certified functional range conditioning mobility specialist based in Price, Utah. It’s commonly done after a workout and for relaxation. Static Stretching Static stretching involves extending a limb to create a stretch sensation and then holding it there — often for 20 to 45 seconds.[1] While the terms “static stretching” and “passive stretching” are often used interchangeably, there’s a subtle difference, Galliett says. Static and passive stretching are similar in that you’re holding a stretch. But unlike passive stretching, with static stretching you’re in some way supporting yourself in the position of the stretch. For example, if you kneel on the floor and hold a position to stretch out your hip flexor (the muscle in the front of your hip), you’re doing a static stretch. But, “if you lie on your side on a massage table and have a physical therapist pull your leg back to stretch the hip flexor, that would be a passive stretch,” Galliett says. Like passive stretching, static stretching is also commonly done after working out and for relaxation. The Health Benefits of Stretching
What the different types of stretching have in common is that they help lengthen the muscles of the body and keep them (and thus you) mobile. Some health benefits of stretching are: More flexibility Improved mobility Better range of motion Lower injury risk Healthy aging When’s the Best Time to Stretch? Before Working Out After Working Out If You’ve Been in the Same Position for a Long Time 