Business and Finance
Title: How AI is transforming business
AI isn’t a replacement for human intelligence and ingenuity — it’s a supporting tool. While the technology may not be able to complete commonsense tasks in the real world, it is adept at processing and analyzing troves of data much faster than a human brain. AI software can take data and present synthesized courses of action to human users, helping us determine potential consequences and streamline business decision-making. “Artificial intelligence is kind of the second coming of software,” explained Amir Husain, founder of ML company SparkCognition. “It’s a form of software that makes decisions on its own, that’s able to act even in situations not foreseen by the programmers. Artificial intelligence has a wider latitude of decision-making ability [than] traditional software.”Internet and data research AI is also significantly impacting online data research. It can sift through vast data troves to identify search behavior patterns and provide users with more relevant information. As people use their devices more and AI technology becomes even more advanced, users will have even more customizable experiences. These abilities will help small businesses reach their target customers more efficiently. “We’re no longer expecting the user to constantly be on a search box Googling what they need,” Rahnama noted. “The paradigm is shifting as to how the right information finds the right user at the right time.” Digital personal assistants AI can transform internal business operations through AI chatbots that act as personal assistants, helping to manage emails, maintain calendars and provide recommendations for streamlining processes. Additionally, chatbots can help you grow your business by handling customer inquiries online. By offloading various tasks to chatbots, you improve customer service while gaining extra time to focus on strategies to grow your business. The future of AI The future of AI is potentially limitless. Consider the following paths forward for the technology: AI will handle more everyday tasks: Experts see AI technology continuing to develop to handle more “commonsense” tasks. That means robots will become extremely useful in everyday life. AI will make the impossible possible: “AI is starting to make what was once considered impossible possible, like driverless cars,” explained Russell Glenister, CEO and founder of Curation Zone. “Driverless cars are only a reality because of access to training data and fast GPUs [graphics processing units], which are both key enablers. To train driverless cars, an enormous amount of accurate data is required and speed is key to undertake the training. Five years ago, the processors were too slow, but the introduction of GPUs made it all possible.” AI will revolutionize familiar activities. Dr. Nathan Wilson, co-founder and chief technology officer of Nara Logics, says AI is on the cusp of revolutionizing familiar activities like dining. Wilson predicted that AI could be used by a restaurant to decide which music to play based on the interests of the guests in attendance. I could even alter the appearance of the wallpaper based on what the technology anticipates the crowd’s aesthetic preferences might be. AI will pave the way for 3D experiences. Rahnama predicts that AI will transform digital technology from the familiar two-dimensional, screen-imprisoned form. “We’ve always relied on a two-dimensional display to play a game or interact with a web page or read an e-book,” Rahnama explained. “What’s going to happen now with artificial intelligence and a combination of [the Internet of Things] is that the display won’t be the main interface ― the environment will be. You’ll see people designing experiences around them, whether it’s in connected buildings or connected boardrooms. These will be 3D experiences you can actually feel.” Tip If interacting with digital overlays in your immediate environment interests you, consider finding a job in augmented reality. What does AI mean for workers? As AI transforms industries, many fear technology and workplace automation will force humans out of work. The jury is still out: Some experts vehemently deny that AI will automate so many jobs that millions of people will be unemployed while others see it as a pressing problem. While there is still some debate on how the rise of AI will change the workforce, experts agree there are some trends we can expect to see. AI may affect analyst jobs. Rahnama doesn’t foresee wide-ranging lost jobs. “The structure of the workforce is changing, but I don’t think artificial intelligence is essentially replacing jobs,” Rahnama explained. “It allows us to really create a knowledge-based economy and leverage that to create better automation for a better form of life.”  AI is the future Whether rosy or rocky, the future is coming quickly and AI will undoubtedly be a part of it. As this technology develops, the world will see new startups, numerous business applications and consumer uses, displacing some jobs and creating entirely new ones. Along with the IOT, AI has the potential to dramatically remake the economy, but its exact impact remains to be seen.