Food
Title: Paloma Cocktail
Love a good paloma? Me, too. The paloma is a delightfully fizzy grapefruit, lime and tequila cocktail hailing from Mexico. If you enjoy a Greyhound, grapefruit margarita or ranch water, this cooling drink is right up your alley.South of the border, palomas are typically made with grapefruit soda like Squirt or Jarritos, which taste similar to Sprite to me. Up here, bartenders often mix them with fresh grapefruit juice and sparkling water instead. I prefer mine to be less sweet and more citrusy, so I love the made-from-scratch option.This paloma recipe is made from scratch with basic ingredients. You’ll need tequila, fresh grapefruit and lime, simple syrup (which is very easy to make), and Topo Chico or sparkling water. Make them at home with top-shelf tequila and you’ll enjoy a better paloma for less money than you’d pay a restaurant.To make this paloma, we’ll shake everything but the Topo Chico in a cocktail shaker filled with ice. Shaking the ingredients together yields the kind of paloma you’d receive at a fancy cocktail bar. It’s a brief step that is worth the extra effort.Finally, we’ll pour the mixture into a glass filled with ice and top it with Topo Chico to retain all those glorious bubbles. Paloma Variations This cocktail is fantastic as written, but here are some fun ways to change the flavor. Choose one or may two, like a combination of spicy salt and fresh chili pepper. Make it salty: Line the rim of the glass with lime juice and then salt or Tajín, a Mexican spice blend of chili, lime and sea salt. Make it spicy: Add one thin round of fresh serrano or jalapeño pepper to the cocktail shaker. Make it extra refreshing: Add a few cucumber slices to the cocktail shaker. Make it floral: Substitute St-Germain liqueur or honey simple syrup for the plain simple syrup. Add vanilla: One drop—no more—of vanilla extract tastes amazing. Add Aperol: Aperol offers a bittersweet Italian twist that makes the drink bright orange. Since it’s sweet, try 1/2 ounce Aperol and cut the simple syrup in half. Amp the citrus flavor: Add one to two dashes of Angostura’s orange bitters to the shaker.