Food
Title: Maple-Fried Egg and Sausage Biscuit
This sandwich is adapted from a recipe in Martin Picard’s completely genius and maple-centric book, Au Pied de Cochon: Sugar Shack, based upon the meals served at his "cabane à sucre” outside of Montreal. I have simplified the recipe in places, but the root of it remains the same: the syrup. If the idea of frying an egg in dark sweet liquid turns you off, I will suggest you set your prejudices aside and give it a try. Maple is no longer just for your latte in the fall. Track down Picard’s book, and get experimental with it. After all, winter may finally be over—boiling sap is one of the first signs that we made it through. Make the Biscuits: Place the flour, and black pepper in a large bowl. Cut 8 tablespoons of cold butter into cubes. Using your clean fingers or a pastry cutter, work the butter into the flour until the crumbs are the size of peas, flattening the butter pieces a little as you go to create flat, shingle-like butter pieces. Drizzle in the cold buttermilk, and stir with a fork or spatula just until the flour is moistened. Tip the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and using your hands or bench scraper, press the dough into a rough rectangle shape that's about 1-inch thick. Using the bench scraper, lift and fold the long edges into the center to meet, similar to how you fold a letter. Roll the biscuit dough out once more into a rough rectangle shape and repeat the letter fold. If at any time the dough seems soft or difficult to lift or work with, pop it in the fridge or freezer to firm up before proceeding. Once you have completed two letter folds, wrap the biscuit dough tightly in plastic wrap and chill in the fridge while you make the sausage patties. (The biscuit dough can be made several hours ahead of time and chilled.) Make the sausage patties. In a medium bowl, combine the ground pork, and spices. Using your clean hands or a spatula stir to combine, until all the spices are evenly distributed. Form into 4 even patties with your hands, and place on a sheet tray lined with parchment or wax paper. Let chill in the fridge while you finish the biscuits. For the Black Pepper Biscuits: 2 cups self-rising flour 1 tablespoon freshly cracked black pepper (use less if you like less heat) 9 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, divided 3/4 cup cold buttermilk 1 tablespoon maple syrup For the Maple Sausage Patties: 1/2 pound ground pork 3 tablespoons maple sugar 1 clove garlic, minced 1/4 teaspoon dried sage 1/2 teaspoon toasted and lightly crushed fennel seeds 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1 teaspoon black pepper 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional) 