Health and Fitness
Title: Top 5 Natural Health Products
 Many cultures worldwide have relied on natural plant and herbal medicines for adequate healthcare for thousands of years. Even though modern-day advancements in technology have provided us with an ever-growing pharmaceutical industry, the demand for natural remedies is increasing. Online resources, such as CFAH have listed the numerous health benefits of natural medicine. They are far more appealing for people than the potential addiction and side effects of pharmaceutical drugs. Not forgetting, most natural health products are more affordable and accessible than conventional medicines. This article discusses five of the most popular natural health products. CBD (Cannabidiol) CBD, short for cannabidiol, is a chemical derived from the Cannabis sativa plant. CBD affects the brain but notably does not contain tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) – the ingredient in cannabis that causes a high. CBD is praised for countless health benefits including, pain relief, reduced anxiety and depression, brain cell protection and improved sleep. Therefore, we can reap the benefits of CBD without experiencing the psychotic effects and dangers of addiction often associated with cannabis. CBD is a plant extract and, therefore, can be incorporated into many products. Some examples include vapours, topical creams, oral drops, supplements, teas and edibles. Therefore, there are plenty of CBD products on the market. Herbal Supplements Herbal supplements boast a multi-billion dollar industry with millions of people incorporating them into their daily health routine. Echinacea, also known as purple coneflower, is one of the leading and most popular herbal supplements known to relieve cold and flu symptoms. However, it can also reduce pain, migraines and inflammation. Another popular herbal supplement is turmeric which is best known for its use in cooking. It’s the spice that gives curries their yellow colour. Turmeric contains a compound called curcumin which is a potent antioxidant with anti-inflammatory properties. Hence why many people invest in turmeric supplements nowadays. Probiotics & Fermented Foods Probiotics and fermented foods have become increasingly popular, given their remarkable benefits for gut health. In recent decades, our diets have become overly saturated with processed foods high in sugars, fats, additives, and salt. It’s not had a good effect on our overall health and has contributed to increased obesity, diabetes and IBS among society. That’s because these kinds of foods can harm our gut microbiome. Probiotics and fermented foods feed our gut with healthy bacterias that protect and rejuvenate our gut microbiome. Coconut Water & Oil Coconut water has gone mainstream after becoming famous for boosting sports performance. It’s naturally low in calories but is packed with essential vitamins, minerals and nutrients which people experience deficiencies in. Some examples include potassium and magnesium. Coconut oil is another product of the coconut renowned for its health benefits. Its high concentration of fatty acids, medium-chain trigylcerides (MCTs). These fats are processed differently by the body and are associated with several health benefits. Coconut oil is popular for those following the keto diet because MCTs can be converted into ketones by the liver. Ketones can be broken down as a quick energy source for the brain in place of glucose. Natural Activated Charcoal Activated charcoal is made from coconut shells, wood, peats or olive pits and other substances. It becomes activated when high temperatures combine with a gas or activating agent to expand its surface area. It has a tremendous ability to absorb impurities, hence why it’s a popular health product. People ingest it to trap toxic substances in the gut and thus prevent their absorption into the body. *collaborative post Wellbeing How To Choose The Perfect Gift: 6 Factors To Keep In Mind 