Health and Fitness
Title: Everything You Should Know About Type 2 Diabetes
 Type 2 diabetes is becoming more and more common among people of all ages. A lot of the time, this is due to people not knowing how to spot the signs of the disease or people not taking steps to prevent it. This guide by us at Freestyle Libre 2 will not only help you spot the early warning signs of Type 2 diabetes but will also give you some tips on lowering your chances of ever getting it. Early Signs Of Type 2 Diabetes Several early warning signs for Type 2 can be associated with other problems, but when experienced together, it is often a sign that you are developing the disease. Frequent Urination When too much sugar is in your system, your kidneys begin to work harder to filter it all out; this is done through urination. If you find yourself going to the bathroom more regularly, especially at night, this could be something you need to check. Increased Thirst This is self-explanatory as it is tied in with the point above, but it is still important to pay attention to both. Increased thirst would be due to excessive urination and can often lead to dehydration or prolonged thirst, no matter how much you drink. Increased Hunger Part of eating and digesting is the body’s need to break down food and get the glucose into the bloodstream. If you have diabetes, the body can’t perform this task effectively, leaving you hungry often, even a short while after eating. Fatigue Due to the lack of glucose intake described above, those with diabetes will often feel tired, even if they have had a long and peaceful night’s sleep. The body isn’t getting enough energy (glucose) in its cells, and it will tire quickly and easily. Blurry Vision Excess sugar in your blood can strain your veins and blood vessels, especially in and around your eyes; this can lead to blurred vision in one or both eyes. Excess sugar can also cause your eye lens to swell, leading to blurred vision. The biggest danger here is that if this problem goes untreated for long enough, it can lead to permanent damage and even loss of sight. Slow Healing The damage to the blood nerves and vessels caused by excess sugar can also make it difficult for your body to heal wounds. Those with diabetes often have much longer healing times, even from minor cuts or scrapes. Tingling Or Numbness Tingling or numbness in the hands or feet is one of the most common early warning signs. The blood vessel damage described above will affect your circulation; therefore, the “pins and needles” sensations will become more common. Patches Of Darker Skin If you begin to develop patches of darker skin that have a velvety feeling in your armpits, groin, or around your neck, this is often a sign of diabetes too. Ways To Prevent Type 2 Diabetes While there is no cure for diabetes, there are multiple ways to prevent it. Prevention is crucial for those who have diabetes in their family or those that have a preexisting condition that can be exacerbated by diabetes. Maintain A Healthy Weight One of the best and sometimes easiest things is maintaining a healthy weight. There is no need to be super-skinny and starve yourself, but it is essential not to binge or overeat. Exercise Exercise can’t prevent or cure everything, but a healthy and fit body is a body that can regulate itself effectively. Exercise will improve your cardiovascular system, lower fat, and maintain your weight. You don’t have to be in the gym for multiple hours a day every day of the week, but you should be getting some form of physical activity at least 4-5 times a week. You don’t have to bench press twice your body weight or run ten miles; the goal is to get your heart and body to move for a sustained period of time. Healthy Eating Eating healthily is probably the best thing you can do to prevent diabetes. The food we eat has a massive impact on how our body performs, and the saying “you are what you eat” has been used for ages for a reason. Once again, there is no need to be extreme with your diet, as it is more about not eating certain things than it is about eating other foods. Limit or eliminate food and drinks that are high in sugar, saturated fats, or are processed. Include lots of fresh fruit and vegetables in your diet, and when thirsty, opt for water instead of soda or alcohol. Preventing diabetes can be a struggle for some, but it is something that more people need to be paying attention to. There are many cases where people only find out they have it when it is too late, but starting prevention now will only lower your chances of getting it more and more as time goes by. Fitness, Health The Unparalleled Power Of Sleep: How Getting Enough Rest Can Be Key To Getting Toned Health and Fitness
