Health and Fitness
Title: Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
COVID-19 is a disease caused by a virus. The most common symptoms are fever, chills, and sore throat, but there are a range of others. Most people make a full recovery without needing hospital treatment. People with severe symptoms should seek medical care as soon as possible. Over 760 million cases and 6.9 million deaths have been recorded worldwide since December 2019, but the actual number is thought to be higher. Over 13 billion vaccine doses have been administered as of June 2023. People may experience different symptoms from COVID-19. Symptoms usually begin 5–6 days after exposure and last 1–14 days. The most common symptoms are: fever chills sore throat. Less common symptoms are: muscle aches and heavy arms or legs severe fatigue or tiredness runny or blocked nose, or sneezing headache sore eyes dizziness new and persistent cough tight chest or chest pain shortness of breath hoarse voice numbness or tingling appetite loss, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain or diarrhoea loss or change of sense of taste or smell difficulty sleeping. People with the following symptoms should seek immediate medical attention: difficulty breathing, especially at rest, or unable to speak in sentences confusion drowsiness or loss of consciousness persistent pain or pressure in the chest skin being cold or clammy, or turning pale or a bluish colour loss of speech or movement. People who have pre-existing health problems are at higher risk when they have COVID-19; they should seek medical help early if worried about their condition. These include people taking immunosuppressive medication; those with chronic heart, lung, liver or rheumatological problems; those with HIV, diabetes, cancer. obesity or dementia. People with severe disease and those needing hospital treatment should receive treatment as soon as possible. The consequences of severe COVID-19 include death, respiratory failure, sepsis, thromboembolism (blood clots), and multiorgan failure, including injury of the heart, liver or kidneys.